A man has a wolf, a goat, and a cabbage. He must cross a river with the two animals and the cabbage. There is a small rowing boat, in which he can take only one thing with him at a time. If, however, the wolf and the goat are left alone, the wolf will eat the goat. If the goat and the cabbage are left alone, the goat will eat the cabbage. How can the man get across the river with the two animals and the cabbage?
A light bulb is hanging in a room. Outside of the room, there are three switches, of which only one is connected to the lamp. In the starting situation, all switches are 'off' and the bulb is not lit. If it is allowed to check in the room only once to see if the bulb is lit or not (this is not visible from the outside), how can you determine with which of the three switches the light bulb can be switched on?
Tom has three boxes with fruits in his barn: one box with apples, one box with pears, and one box with both apples and pears. The boxes have labels that describe the contents, but none of these labels is on the right box. How can Tom determine what each of the boxes contains, by taking only one piece of fruit from one box?
You are given two ropes and a lighter. Each of the two ropes has the following property: if you light one end of the rope, it will take exactly one hour to burn to the other end. It doesnt necessarily burn at a uniform rate. How can you measure a period of 45 minutes?
You have 100 bags of coins each with 100 coins, but only one of these bags has gold coins. The gold coin weighs 1.01 ounce and the other coins weighs 1 ounce. You also have a scale, but can only use it once. How can you identify the bag of gold coins?
The police rounded up Jim, Bud and Sam yesterday, because one of them was suspected of having robbed a bank. The three suspects made the following statements under intensive questioning: Jim: Im innocent. Bud: I’m innocent. Sam: Bud is guilty. If only one of these statements is true, who robbed the bank?
A lawyer has a brother who is a Catholic priest. The lawyer wants to be a priest as well but cannot. Why not?
A group of ten people are going out for pizza but only two of them have an umbrella to keep them dry. But they manage to walk all the way to the pizza place without getting wet. How is this possible?